Hello, dear listener and welcome back to Startling Barbara Bain.
The only Space 1999 commentary podcast with Isla Blair living rent free in our heads.
I'm Nathan.
I'm Brendan.
I'm James.
And I'm taking a cruise up the coast of Isla Blair and a fetching mauve shower curtain for this one.
So this is an episode that I have absolutely vivid memories of as a child, and it's probably the 1st one.
That and Black Star I definitely remember.
And this is, I think, every bit as good as I thought it was.
It's in the top 3 for both the production staff, the British critics at the time who weren't kind to this show at all.
And weirdly ITC, who originally rejected it, because all the cast dies during the show.
People will turn off.
That is actually what a Mandel said..
Never seen a bloody Hitchcock?
Come on.
It is very strange, isn't it?
It really kind of reinforces to me that this is almost an anthology show rather than an actual series where things happen to people in order.
It's just the one, you know, what if everyone died?
And it's hard to imagine that you wouldn't do it as a season finale or something these days. was often shown as a season finale by broadcasters.
Channel 7, I think originally showed it at the end.
It's not meant to be the season finale.
We'll get to that later.
Right, yeah.
What did you think?
Is this one you'd seen before, James?
I'd never seen any of it.
Oh, that's true.
Space virtue.
Just that side of the...
That's episode 13.
That's the 1st time for everything.
Just wait till you meet Caroline Mortimer.
I don't understand what that means.
Do you remember this one?
You watched it before, Brandon.
Yeah, but on the Blu-ray.
Yeah, exactly.
Like 3 or 4 years ago when I bought the Blu-ray, when I watched it, but that was my 1st time seeing them all before that, I'd seen like 3 episodes of Space 1999.
Boys of a certain pre-hormonal age.
Just remember the overload of space things. and just how techie hardware fabulous.
It was.
I don't think many dinky toys survived in the same pit.
No.
I have to say that I remember being a bit distressed by the state that the main mission set gets to be in when I was 10 because that was really mostly what I was here for, I think.
Yeah.
I have a story about that that Xenia Merton told Fanderson back at a convention and I'm happy to share.
Oh, brilliant.
She didn't really hold back.
Miss her so much, I tell you.
So what do you think?
Should we go in?
Do we have any?
Yeah.
Yep.
Okay.
So what we'll do, we have a code word, and that code word this week is aquarium.
And when I say that next, I want the listener at home to press play and I want Brendan to press play as well.
Have we actually said that the episode this month is Wargames?
Why don't we say that properly and then throw it back in?
Well, well, we've just done it.
Okay, no, we have. absolutely.
Well, it's on the it's on the thing.
It's the name of the episode... of everything else we do.
It is series one, episode four.
Or 17.
Yeah, depending on whether there's production order or broadcast order.
And that's the other thing too.
It's a little bit odd at this point in the show.
Yeah, it depends which country you're in.
Yeah.
We're watching it in production.
No, we're watching a new broadcast order.
This is...
Anyway.
Let's not get started.
Well, this is story code SP17.
Right.
And it's the 3rd of Christopher Pemfold's most successful script and also the point at which he decided to hand the towel in.
Oh, okay.
This is his last one.
Well, not quite, but we'll get to why.
Right, okay.
Although I kind of already spilt it.
It's called New York.
The Americans, we think of this as a British show, but it really isn't.
It's made for the US and by this stage, dear Lord Grade.
I want to call him Lord Thames because that's what Kenny Everett called him.
Lou Grade was absolutely on his own and it was his money.
And really we can, we can blame raising the Titanic for the fact that this ended up as whatever it was for season 2 because no one else on the board at ATV or ITC, it was a big company with a lot of hands and it supported the idea of selling, of having to rely entirely on US sales, which had been the case way back to Supercar.
And, you know, we've discussed that on Bondfinger previously.
But it really was for a whole generation of us kids and British creative talent and industry.
The film industry in Britain now says they thank Lou Grade.
We wouldn't have had bond films if it wasn't for the effects expertise at that level of Jerry and Sylvia.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And it's the industry that says that now.
Well, I think we go in then.
All right.
Are you ready?
You do.
Keep going.
I have to watch them.
We could just talk about that.
No, we can't possibly do that.
All right, so fingers on the buttons and I'm going to say the word.
Shower curtain.
What is it?
It's aquarium.
Herpes eyebrows.
Mark one.
I've got a little pet theory about the earnings, but oh my god, let's not talk about that.
Let's talk about Mark 9 Hawks.
They're great, aren't they?
Do you know where they actually come from?
No.
Do you remember a show called UFO?
Yes.
Do you remember a concept for a show called Hi, Alan, like the Boots?
Do you remember a show called UFO 2?
We talked about when CBS were loving it.
Again, Victor carries the entire.
I know.
I love how touchy they are.
I think I'm gonna mention every time a character touches another one.
I now see him just Victor.
I see him now as Dr. Swinger.
I think he saw himself as doctor.
And I like that they keep frosting Paul Morrow.
He just gets more frosted.
Isn't that gorgeous?
It's beautiful.
It is really great, actually, that you look up from the moon base and sea.
Princess Peaches theme this year.
Yeah.
Feeling Peachy, he said.
I love that they've got mood walls.
Yes, suck that in Russell T. Davies. first.
And there's orange bums on alert.
What do the different coloured arms mean?
So they're different sections.
I remember this as a child.
So like purple sleeve of security and white is medical and stuff.
Keith had a Keith Wilson, who designed pretty much everything you see except for the ships, all the spaceships in this one are designed by Brian Johnson, including the beautiful and glamorous, and gorgeous Mark 9 Hawk, which was conceptually going to be the UFO interceptor, reborn.
And it looks quite similar to the shadow interceptor, but that wasn't discussed and just slightly redrawn.
And of course, it was built all white.
It was also going to be Commander's eagle in other stories.
But when they tested it on the little 4 by 3 monitors for the effect shots. were invisible.
Well, the American said, they look like eagles.
How do you tell the difference?
Because you don't understand design.
I mean, I think they look great, and I think it adds a sort of level of weirdness to it as well.
You know, the fact that they're being attacked by their own people.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, you know, Chris Penfold's original concept for that when he discussed them, small, venomous and wasp-like.
They are from a civilisation very similar to ours, but more advanced.
Right.
But then, of course, Sylvia and Jerry, like, because I don't actually know which one it was. said, no, no, no, let's make it the home turf and let's bring a little bit more of shadow 2 into this.
So that's the point, is that they did it with all their series.
And isn't Martin doing it brilliantly there?
I can do nothing better than anybody else on this face.
It's really good, isn't he?
He really is.
Oh, aren't they pretty?
Oh, those little pretty things.
Martin Bowett built all the Mark 9 Hawks in his dad's shed.
The explosions look great, don't they, when they like genuinely explode the models.
There's only 3 of them.
There's 13 inches, 9 inches and 5 inches, but we're amongst friends and we don't judge.
But he the 5 inch one's worth one of them for when you see the gorgeous battle cruiser that was built for Alpha Child.
Oh, okay.
And that's 5 feet long and he built that in his dad's shed as well.
Martin later went on to build vacuum cleaner of the Vardens, if anyone remembers. invasion of time. shed.
It's the fact that you know, he has 2 sleeves. representative of the fact that he's the commander.
I don't.
Oh, is it?
Yes, it is.
And also he's the only one in that sort of petrol blue. colour.
Ah, okay.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think I had that bond's long sleeved top.
I startled just thinking about it.
Barbara's like on a lazy Susan and someone's actually just physically turning her around.
And further on the uniforms, James, you may notice that Victor has no colour on his sleeve, which fans have taken to mean over the years that he is non-military.
Oh no, it's deliberate.
It's in the story Bible.
No, he was not meant to be on the base, of course.
Other than a visiting scientist who just ended up having such a great time, there cough that he hung around and he's there, but no, that's that's a non-uniform suit that he wears.
He's not an official member of the alpha.
That's what the rest of the human race.
Yeah, so do they hope so.
Does HR get rid of him between seasons?
that's what's happening.
Do you want to talk about this episode?
It's quite contained later, I'm sure.
I think we might save that for space brain because it's quite, well, there's a lot to say about it.
Do they stick him in a cryopod and shoot him back towards Earth?
Well, because he was he was my favourite...
He was my favourite thing about it when I was a kid.
I think that shows great vision for a child.
My favourite thing was spaceships.
They were also great.
Oh, they're just so pretty.
They're meant to be tiny, although I'm not getting that sense of scale.
And of course, you don't see them on a launch pad, sadly.
They seem like a similar size to the...
Yeah, they're meant to be about a 3rd of the size of an eagle.
They do look cut down.
That looks just amazing, doesn't it?
Holy crap.
Now, this is the point where fans of Sandra Baines, fans of Xenia Merton will notice that she ran and dashed directly under a desk as soon as the shots started because she'd already done a matter of life and death with Charles Crichton and she said, and she sat on set and she said it to all the rest of us.
Oh, Cardwell cut up.
She said to the rest of us, there she is now. saying Charles Crichton definitely has.
This guy.
Yeah, that guy's always having a shit time.
Always getting sucked off.
Yeah.
Like, should we get him sucked off again?
It's a lot of bouncing butt action, but yeah, it's so good.
Yeah, this is great, doesn't it?
There'll be more full as earth moments, but yes, Zenya said, he definitely had shares in full as earth because the bastard covered us in it and it suits that super fine powder that you use for effects.
You just never get it out of your mouth, she said.
And I'm not referring to Victor's parties.
A few shots ago, a lady handed something to Tanya, who was the woman who usually sits to Paul's other side.
And she was, not Tanya, but the, the, the lady who was the extra was just smiling away, very happy to be on television. you know, the room isn't exploding.
Actually, there she goes.
She's got brown sleeve on.
She's just wandering through her back.
Just glad to get the call.
I won't be evicted this week.
I think all of this spaceshit is so exciting on this show as well.
I like it at the monitors, I can only say red alert. would be off.
Yes, yeah.
Yeah, which is one of those things you would not notice in standard definition.
No, probably not.
Yeah, no, it's, I mean, the stakes immediately.
Like, I don't know, what did we think of it when we 1st saw it?
A lot happening, stunning levels of TV action.
There are more cuts in this than any other TV show at the time.
Right, yeah, yeah.
Again, one of the reasons it was so expensive.
There's just a huge amount of it, as you can see, editing and shots setups and again, all with the composite.
So the other thing that I really like about the, about the Hawks is that they just have that little light, the little flashing light under the head and then the thing explodes.
It doesn't find like the big beam thing that the eagle's fire.
Little pulse.
It just makes them seem deadlier and weirder, I think.
Like more powerful, they can just shoot you with sound.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It was a regret of mine since about the age of 12 and picking up that number 2 styleogue edition and reading that the commander's eagle was going to be.
It was supposed to be a white mark 9 hawk and you never got to see them again.
Love him to be zapping off as Roger Ramjit, having a go at...
And I'm sorry, but Anthony Valentine and Isla Blair, pains in the...
The pains in the aquarium, they get everything they deserve in this, which is nothing.
So we are cutting to a cardboard cut out of a hawk that explodes.
Don't forget, though.
Although, I mean, if you were a wealthy person, and we did have remotes, then I do remember colour TVs being quite large for the wealthy folk in the 70s, but most of us just had TVs of what?
Yeah.
You know?
Yeah, what was the line?
Hello, 12?
But you could see the lines.
Alan.
But I'd also remember that the, I remember the clarity of it.
Not as obviously not as detailed as this, but it was enough to be able to see.
We couldn't see the wires, though.
And I actually, I would argue, you still can't see the words.
No, you can. and I will point...
We're watching we're watching something that isn't meant to be seen.
No, exactly right.
Oh, there's Tanya.
Yeah, she's looking very serious.
She has been in this episode, but Faniel Alexandra.
Yeah.
No chicken, no beef this week.
That's her.
The lady.
That's smiley lady.
And she's awesome. like her a lot.
She's got great hair.
They've really got to do something better with their cable runs up in those cities.
Do you think?
Yeah, bad cable management.
I thought it might be the remains of the crystal.
Oh, there's an office chair stuck on the ceiling.
Exploded.
Oh, there goes my air on chair.
That was really expensive.
Actually, really uncomfortable stations to sit up normally, and there's no damn monitors.
What the hell do you do when you're trying to send your emails?
It's crazy, isn't it?
It's just unfair Well, I think they're trained to read those flashing lights that are different colours.
They probably had...
You see, this just looks like Stromberg is going to create his master race.
Meanwhile, this is the only stairs that are available, so we're going down the stairs in mission control again. because they're our stairs in the set.
It's a good point.
You never see the fire scores.
Good.
I mean, no one's in that shot anymore.
No one's standing well back for the computer wall.
No, no, no.
Maybe, just little trip switch, maybe.
Someone comes up, like, I love the thing, like, where they're spraying deodorant on the fire, like, there.
Look, look, he's got some deodorant and then something else is happening.
And then he goes, oh, okay, I'll stop doing that then.
Wow, this is so amazing, isn't it?
I mean, I think I think that we think...
I think that we think they can mend this between episodes.
This is the amount of damage that we could probably mend between, given the 1st 2 episodes. had nuclear explosions happening on the base and we're all fine.
Although we finally do address that, you know, later on when she says it'll take 9 weeks, John, just to reset the water assist.
All of that stuff was...
And then it's another 2 months.
Suck it up, John, is what she's saying, you know.
And he's thinking, it's going to be a lot of Pepsi. a long time.
Oh, damn, they haven't broken the...
Oh, we've David's put the put the computer out.
But he's also managed to trip the switch to Valentine's Day theme. walls.
I didn't mention the massacre.
So great.
So many explosions.
So good.
There we go.
There's the fuller's earth again.
Wait for it.
But like their whiteboard has fallen over.
Apparently, Bob got a mouthful of it just enough now.
So I think Bob is actually pasting pages from his last performance review.
Like on the on the window.
They keep a backup on.
They probably do.
It does look he's got Bob's wig on.
Oh, do you think?
Yeah, look, see?
Look, that's definitely, oh, that's requisitioning drugs, I think, probably those ones.
And no one's particularly careful to avoid the live wires falling from the ceiling, are they?
They're just kind of happy to walk past them.
Whoa, there goes Bob.
No, Bob.
Bob.
How many how many other vowels are in there?
Well, I tried putting extra vowels in it was just boob.
Yeah, so.
Yeah, I think it ends up becoming A's.
A, A, A. We shall never get to say Bob again.
Yeah.
No, look, her hair.
I thought like her hair was just a piece. like Lego.
Oh, no, that's all that's all.
Princess Hancock.
I missed a trick not doing Space 1999 Lego.
Yeah.
Well, we have done gorgeous versions of it.
Well, do you remember Legoland space?
Like, yeah.
Friend of the podcast, Conrad, says that those were people who just had fucking jobs, you know, and went to work and they were kind of happy about it.
They'd have a big spanner.
You know, they had...
Massive walkie-talkie, the side.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And I think these people are like the Lego Land space.
Well, they fly around in absolutely dangerous, tiny little rocket delta wing planes with no safety harnesses.
Look, here's the ship from 2001 coming together for copyright infringing.
You saw the strings above the fuel.
So yes, that...
See, look, that's a beautiful shot and he has his arm around her and she's kind of going, I think probably HR all died.
It's exactly what she is.
And then 2 seconds later, creepy hand.
I mean, she is to my, and look, as Sandra, as Zenya said, she's, you know, I was the 2nd female lead in this show for an entire season.
And it didn't lead anywhere for her.
It actually was pretty much a curriculum for everyone for a long time.
And that's simply that it wasn't networked, as we've said.
But there's a beautiful creative freedom in it, not just because of Lou Grade, but because, as I think we've mentioned before, no one's got to see this until the very final episode was in the can of season one.
So the only people who got to critique it were the New York guys.
But mind you, they didn't waste time doing that.
I guess I like the idea, though, that they're just doing what they want to do without feedback and they're just putting this out into the world to see what people make of it.
And one of the things that I like about it is, you know, obviously huge in this episode, which is the weird metaphysics of it all, that it's not just rubber monsters that are coming to eat us.
And so this is, and it's sort of, Christ, the full is earth.
Now that you mention it, Richard, there's drifts of it all over the sand.
Sandra's saying no one gets paid enough to do the shit.
I mean, the good news is it's not full of earth in this one. actually asbestos.
Okay, good.
Yeah, everyone's fine.
Zine is dead, obviously, at this point.
Not on this boat.
So everyone in that shot is dead.
Yeah, that's right.
Yeah, yeah.
Just because this is about, I mean, in a sort of slightly crap way.
It's about, you know, the fall of man, you know, the fact that we we're fallen and can't make it into paradise in a way.
We're too governed by fear.
There's a lot of melting inherently destructive in this one.
You're absolutely right And this is why they're so good.
There's so much high and low at the same time.
And of course, yet again, Victor gets the absolute best speech of the episode later on.
Yeah.
Oh, that's extraordinary.
Yeah, yeah.
Actually, there was a moment earlier on where John sends him downstairs with all of the beautiful young people.
Yeah, that's right.
He's having a party.
But he thinks for a 2nd and then doesn't object.
Do you know what I mean?
Like I like it a lot.
It's also, who can we least afford to lose?
Yeah.
Youth, beauty, and brains.
Guess which one you are, Victor?
Love this table.
Yeah, it does look like it's the sort of Malamine, you know, Well, actually it's one of the few items that isn't a designer piece of furniture.
It's actually just something keeping the props.
No, it's actually just laminate on chipboard.
And as you can see, with the star base of it, but it's just bird.
Just superb.
I thought it was IKEA's knockoff of...
AKEA was quite conservative at this point.
Right.
It looks like something from the desk star.
Yeah, white Melamine?
But don't forget, the same people worked on that later on.
And it's 73.
Actually, this isn't.
This is 24th of October.
Hang on.
Shoot was, do you remember?
Shoot was...
Oh, I'm trying to remember.
Twitter, yeah, 24th of October, 28th of November.
Do you know what was going on right next door while they were showing Fuller's Earth?
No.
Catalogues that everybody over here.
The rookie horror picture show started shooting on the 21st of October.
Just next door.
And there was quite a little bit of after shoot partying between the crowds. between the sets.
This is so, I bet, I bet both Victor and I reckon Prentice Hancock.
Definitely.
Well, Alan Harris, who isn't named, but he's one of the swarthy blondet, horribly blonde extras.
It's all standing around.
I'll point him out when we get to see him.
But Alan Harris took a leave of absence during half of this shoot because he was working as a stand-in for Peter Inwood due to the alarming Jockic he received from this gold vinyl.
It's all very true.
So Peter was having uncomfortable days. from after being in the pool.
So yes, Alan Harris had to step in.
It's all family, friendly. sadly.
She was family.
Oh, I should have mentioned the score.
You know, when we saw the Mark 9 Hawks?
It's a brand new piece of music from the Warner Chapel library for those of us who follow this shtick, and it's not Barry Gray, because once Barry had composed all his sweets, He wasn't involved at all.
New York didn't want him and that's another thing I want to complain about.
Is he back?
The series 2?
comes back.
So he just makes an initial kind of a lot of music that they reuse.
It was age is in New York City, he's too old.
The main theme of this series is stunning and very, very contemporary.
It's orchestra disco, yeah.
So we think now that, I mean, if we're watching this attentively, once Bob is dead, we know that there's a reset button.
Yeah, there is, do we think?
Tasha, yeah.
Well, yeah, but they, I mean, it just seems unlikely though.
Like they still make a big fuss about Tasha Yard.
Do you know what I mean?
Like, it's not quite like just Bob, and then we don't mention him from now on.
And like and 140 of like half of the crew are gone.
How many people are there, 400 on Alpha?
400 and something?
Was it roughly the same as the original?
The original Enterprise, yeah.
Yeah.
And that was another point of the of the critic backlash for this.
It didn't really die because of viewer receiving.
It actually did quite well everywhere it was shown.
It just, again, no network, networking, I should say.
And British critics really disliked it.
At the time, you know, there was that culture of cringe, they didn't like the sense of live action being made to be American and the time, the big unionisation, without actually realising that you can't get to see things like this without US money buying it.
Yeah.
Personification of Anderson.
Yeah, well, it's a good point.
Yeah.
I was just gonna say, like, Doctor Who fans complaining about Disney funding, Doctor Who.
It's like, well, literally no one else was going to.
Yeah, that's right.
Was Doctor Who going to end?
The BBC can't afford to make anything.
But it paid for itself anyway, without MC sales.
Yeah, the current iteration of Doctor Who basically, you know, if Disney weren't putting in the money.
We probably wouldn't be getting it.
Yeah, they were going to count.
Even though just like in 1989, it paid for itself.
Yeah.
How come?
It's just the way they bank it, is it?
Yeah.
Wow.
That's an ablest line there from Paul.
Yeah, wow.
Well, why do all of the, why do all of the planets look like prolapses of some kind?
don't know about your prolapses.
Say your Auntie Jan's kaftan. not finishing that sentence.
So gross.
I didn't I didn't know what one of those was as a child.
I still don't.
Now, this is gorgeous.
This, again, is all designed by Brian Johnson and it's pretty much exactly his sketch, so credit where it's due.
Remember when alien planets looked like that?
When we were kids?
Looked tray exotic.
It's so amazing They look like a freaking trip, didn't they?
But, you know, like...
Or a Dalek city with nice people.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, Dalek City had those sorts of shapes on it, but just the, like that weird one with the, that looks like, you know, it's a group of little occasional tables for sort of devils on horseback and things, you know, to serve them.
Like it's so, they're so lovely.
They're so amazing.
It just looks like somebody's got the grass out of a Hornby train set and...
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, which they did.
Oh, no, no, absolutely they did.
But, you know, everyone knowing, everyone watching it knows it's a model.
What's amazing about it is just the weirdness of it.
And that's, you know, on another podcast that I do, I'm constantly complaining about how unambitious visually 90s Star Trek is.
And this, I mean, in Paris, the London landing.
Oh, wait, that, see, see, there's a string.
No, I can't see a thing.
No, answer.
So over there between the ship and the sky.
We never saw them on the...
No, no. and she sleeves gone pleasingly mauve.
No, do you get why?
Because the sky's mauve, and so the lighting directors were being so clever as to just do subtle gels all the time.
Every shot is proper Hollywood level gland.
Well, accept your bums riding up there, Martin.
Sorry.
I love that.
Look at the just the but look at the flair.
They're so great.
Join me in this sauna shower.
And now this, so last episode, we had Margaret Layton living in her monochrome, kind of sad, which is fabulous.
And then this kind of outdoes it a 100 times over.
I think it just looks amazing.
And it just reminds me of, you know, the amazing thing about this is that it's all special effects done in the camera, like in a film camera.
It's so great. shows you what you can do when you understand the tech.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, doesn't it look incredible?
I mean, it's just shooting through perspects, objects and stuff.
She does move like a Captain Scarlet puppet though.
That's it.
Maybe that's how she got the job.
She was, she decided to take that tack during auditions.
Yeah, and a lot of lesser functioning critics were throwing that at them.
But again, I think you agree.
I can't see any other way you could pitch this.
It's got to be still.
What were you going to say, James?
I was going to say, if the puppet can get the job by acting like that, why can't you?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
No, exactly.
It looks incredible, doesn't it?
There's tinsel for those of you who are terrified of tinsel.
And it's a mean.
But just the oddness of it.
Like, what is it?
Where are we?
We're in a sort of 70s television, wondering on the back of a TV.
We are.
We could actually be exhibits in a tiny mini viewing scope.
But look at those lights just in the front of the shot.
Yeah, it's a mini scope.
Yeah.
They're in the miniscope.
Only it looks good.
Yeah, a Boca effect on little classic lights.
Yeah, it's incredible. and gorgeous little.
Oh here we go.
John Pertwiz nose up Katie Manning's bottom.
Speaking of which, interesting take on the design that, and there's been some really lovely, or there was at the time, not much later, I should say.
Anyway, some really lovely fanfic, tying in these, this species with the aliens that they met in Earthbound.
Christopher Lee's crew, Alexandor's people.
And you'll notice they actually use the same set modules.
Right, our computer banks and all the rest of it.
But there's a kind of a nice parallel to say that, yes, these extended worlds they're meeting, actually know each other, and they know of the moon's progress, and they know of these people, and that's why they're keeping the hell away, or sending...
Yeah, yeah.
Just off your fuck.
Yeah, your disaster.
Yeah, you're really you're just too beige.
Yeah, that's what we should have called it.
Off you fuck.
Off you fuck beggies.
He's fresh from raffles. doesn't show, does it?
And there's a lovely nod to 50s sci-fi, you know, with all of this.
Instead of giant bum headed aliens.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Mean, I actually think that he is incredibly good.
He really is, isn't he?
Yeah, and I'm not quite sure what it is.
Even less than bad.
Yeah, that's right.
It's completely impassive.
It's like he's having the week off.
You know, like I'm just going to sit here and I'm not, I'm being paid by the facial expression.
No, he's not being paid by the facial expression.
Do you know all this acting style changed with the Beatles?
Ah.
And it was all of that trips to the Rajnishi, Fabulousness, and they... awareness of Buddhism and Eastern type wise men that we talked about on FDA.
And this whole scope of, oh, well, you know, to be enlightened is to be super cool.
It is not about getting expressive.
Yeah, it's about, I'm so in control.
I'm barely, but I'm just clenched.
Yeah, that's really my only response.
He's not even bothering to focus his eyes underneath him.
Yeah, like he's complete.
Probably no got no control over any orifice of his body right now at all.
And here is Isla.
Fabulous Island of Blair.
Cut you. who we obviously know from Blake Seven's duel and the King's Demons.
Was she in the King's DM?
She is.
Well, I think it's more appropriate.
It's probably more appropriate to say.
We know Isla Blair's nipples from that episode.
We do know her nipples, yeah.
Because they had a starring role.
She just brought them this week. has she?
No.
There's also some nice fanfic tying these aliens in with Myers people because they've both got the same unfortunate herpes reaction on them.
Super orbital reaches.
But so does Helena give Maya something that clears up the brown ears, like during the course of series two?
I think they go a bit softer on that.
I'm one of the few children at the time or later. actually adored Catherine Shelley in that.
I had a lot of fun watching this as a child.
I really looked forward to seeing her.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I think Rod said earlier that he thought that she was great as well.
Look, I think now that it was dumb.
And as I've said before, series 2 is the 1st piece of television that I've I was ever disappointed by as a child.
And yeah, it is Catherine Shell. you know, she is fabulous. until all that makeup, she's probably a very beautiful woman.
Probably.
I do think with their performances, um, uh, Christopher and and either, there is a...
There is a proper alienness about them.
They're not acting in any sort of human way.
Right down too.
Neither are taking a sort of gender role, if you like, because Koenig here takes a stereotypically masculine gender role of his 1st reaction is violence.
Whereas she gets to kill him.
Exactly.
And, you know, Helena's later reaction is a very feminine protective, I bring life. stereotypical role, whereas you don't have them with these two.
And I think particularly for Christopher's alien, that gives a feeling of strangeness in that he, you know, there's there's a slight disdain, but there's no anger, there's no aggression from him.
No, there's nothing.
There's literally nothing.
Yeah, no facial movements of any kind.
Nada.
Yeah.
I think, though, that he is bigger than her and has a bigger head.
That's true.
Yeah.
So there is an element of sexual dimorphism.
So, John, plus the thorax.
Different construction.
Looks, just some acting here from just in case anyone is missing it from Barbara.
She's definitely, definitely doing scared acting and...
She's more than a little bit staffed.
This is getting just a little bit...
You're not respecting my personal space.
That's the work environment.
And I was saying...
I thought that they were killing her.
Look, Nope, they're just putting her in the aquarium.
They've got another one of those shower curtains spear and... that got blue for quite a long period of time, wasn't it?
Well, you know.
And that's all done in the camera, isn't it?
Like they're just doing some weird ass thing.
It's an optical, so it is done.
It is a post-effect.
They're very expensive.
Yeah, yeah.
It's like those laser shots, yeah.
That's why the mark line hawks are actually just little light because they're cheaper.
But they didn't have LEDs in those states, so they're still bulbs, little people.
Yeah, I thought they looked incredible.
There's Barbara saying so enlightenment.
Oh my ass has gone off.
John, John, John.
How are we feeling about John's CV and application to this role now?
Is he really meeting all the job requirements for what is, you know, what's needed to be?
Yeah, no, no, he's a bit of a dickhead, isn't he?
He's a bit off the mark, isn't he?
Well, tinsted... of his people are dead, though.
Again, again.
Common. he just met Margaret.
No, he Well, he did guess just meet Margaret Layton.
Did he not learn anything from that?
Well, he learned to be a religious maniac from her and now he's meeting a whole bunch of other religious maniacs here who've gone to heaven.
He was brought back to life. and got a diet job at the same time.
Yeah, they fix their hair.
She had a comb over as well.
Well, it's a nice thing when they, you know, quantum physics talks about this.
Quantum level time doesn't really exist.
It's all in that it all happens at the same time.
So yes, there's no reason you can't reboot.
Yes.
So they are in sort of virtual reality.
Oh my god.
What is she doing?
move him off.
I should mention that Nathan works right next door to this set at the College Street Museum.
Goes in to see Barbara Bain in her display.
She does look a bit frill-necked lizard, doesn't she?
She does.
She looks a bit like an exotic alien.
Sorry, exotic Australian fauna.
John, what the fuck?
But she's really giving off George Harrison.
You're really giving me the shits vibes right now, isn't she?
Actually, it's a bit Yoko Ono vibe.
Soz.
Yeah, no, I'm I think...
Oh, don't you love?
Sorry, don't you love how they actually show how the eagle module connects?
with the shoulder portion then to the pod there?
I would fucking fall flat on my face every single time out of excitement.
Well, no, just kind of like, what is that ridge in the floor there?
for like it.
Well, it's cute to have a seat.
I mean, it's a I know, I know.
We can't have a hawk.
They don't have those. don't have those.
No, the Hawk is one module.
Yeah, yeah, it is.
Yeah.
Now, okay, boys, while there's a slightly quiet moment.
Who wants to indulge in some standing and modelling?
I just quickly tell you, if any, if any of our listeners are fans.
Okay, the Mark 9 large Mark 9 Hawk, 13 inches long, was, if you want to kick bash one at home, made with the Satin one B rocket, Satin 5 rocket, Harry a Jumpjet, B 29 Super Fortress, Matilda Infantry Tank, the Bismarck Battleship, the SRN 4 hovercraft that menaced our John Pertwee.
And several times, a Vostock spaceship spacecraft, and the lunar module lander that you also saw in, I think, Ambassadors of Death.
Isn't that exciting?
That's awesome.
And that was just how you built things then.
Yes.
And the top of a fairy liquid bottle.
Yes, indeed.
And yes, the orange...
A bloke called Foster added the orange stripes on the day of shooting, actually.
I don't know why that would have been because the they would.
Oh, they did the rushes and then New York said no.
I hurriedly painted them with a bit of masking tape and they look fat.
I think it looks really good I would have thought black and yellow stripes to look like a wasp, but again, tiny TVs you want.
Yeah, yeah, but also Orange is kind of the Space 1999 colour.
The default other colour, isn't it?
Yeah, international.
And that's ours, you know, yeah.
This is Paul Sleeve.
So someone has, someone has put all of the wires away and vacuumed all the full desserts.
Do you think Victor did it?
Yeah, he's done his hair.
They would have made Zenya do it, and she would have pitched.
She would have bitched about it.
Which fair enough, I think.
I think it's not Kano.
Yeah, I'm sitting here.
We're going to be the token fucking black man, you're not going to make me work.
This is them kind of going, if we had a planet handy, we'd repopulate it, but we're all going to die.
But then Paul, but there's Paul saying, I'm up for it anyway.
Like, you've got 5 minutes.
Look how big my hands are.
Speaking of being, it's easy to forget. volcano's quite muscular.
Yeah, yeah.
Check that arm.
I just love that you're saying you stupid white bitches, you clue, sort of, your own mess.
Well, in fact, we do get we get a lovely kind of the 2 of them going off together, sort of patting each other on the arms, which is kind of sweet.
Oh, look, they've taken all the discs out.
Yeah, yeah.
Like I said, they're vacuum.
No, they haven't.
Look There still the dust on the... right.
There's still dust on the stairs.
Yeah, well, no one ever cleans at the top of the cupboard.
No.
I love this speech.
This is the speech you mentioned, isn't it?
It's beautiful This is from George Bellak's original.
Do you remember he was on the shoot before Chris Penfold as an Uber writer, and this was one of his high concept stories.
Yeah, okay.
But Sylvia was absolutely for the high concept, and she said, and she was the one who said, there is no reason we kind of high and low in every episode.
And let's respect that the people watching us are intelligent, even if they're children.
They're intelligent.
And What we're getting to see.
Can I go there?
It's probably the last independent, thoughtful, expensive sci-fi show for at least 10 or 15 is actually until B5.
The last one that was allowed to be what it wanted to be.
Right.
Or you might say Firefly.
Yeah.
That's, yeah.
Well, I love that, obviously.
No, we're all fucked off.
Although Doctor Who was being, but no, it was very constrained by its service and time slot.
Well, the interesting thing with B5 is it has a concept called the 1st ones, who are the races who existed long before humanity and the other aliens on the show and have long since evolved past the point of needing physical bodies.
Right.
And they turn up early on.
There's a supporting character who's an archeologist who hears about there are these strange creatures out near this planet and she goes there and they almost destroy her just by passing her in the ship.
Another character when she wants an explanation.
Another character picks up an ant from a bunch of flowers and puts it down again and says, what would this ant walk up to another ant and say about that experience of being picked up and put down?
Right.
That's what those creatures are and they walk out there and I am glad they are here and I will be very happy never to meet them.
And that's kind of what we're seeing here.
It's like Nathan's parent teacher day.
So she's so they're pumping something into the air.
Okay, of course, they're off their tits.
That's why she's in the aquarium.
Yeah, yeah.
I'm not going to waste that shit.
It's a vape.
Look at her going, God, any more of this stuff.
No.
Pop boxing, Barbara.
And there's the episode type.
Smoking Barbara Bain.
So, Richard.
Song very avoid.
Yes, Todd.
Female alien.
Decompression victim one.
Or Victor.
Victor's all 3 of those. he is, but Nathan's already tagged me, though.
Look, I have to say, if you're going to snog, and we know what that means.
It took anyone that gets sucked out on a Kirby wire is always a bit gorgeous just for their torsional strength.
You know, they don't they don't have a lattice superstructure to support those boys when they're getting sucked off on a Kirby White. isn't that a beautiful shot?
It's amazing isn't it?
So lovely.
And there's a reason for it in story, but I can't, for the life of me.
Remember what it is.
That's why.
Yeah, that's awesome.
But yes, exactly.
We just wanted to see the 2 eagles come up to one another and stuff.
So wait, what are we doing?
We're here to just blow the shit out of everyone.
Well, I'd still like to hear whether Richard wants to marry Heila Blair or Victor.
I'm ignoring Ireland.
No, she's going to be work.
Well, but Nathan, I suppose I could share.
He'd definitely be up for that.
Yeah, no, no.
I mean, I think he's already got dibs.
What about young you, James?
Since we're currently on the rotor ride?
It actually should have been stog, Mary, get socked off on a Kirby wire.
Which planet do you want to avoid?
I think it's all of them.
All of them, they're all author.
Oh, I remember this shot is so terrible.
It's a magnesian burn.
Oh, do you know what this actually is?
No, they've learned to put the camera under the explosion for a start.
That shot there, that shot with the...
Yeah, yeah, yeah. where he's absolutely dead.
Like that fi is deformed.
Because I think I loved the little cyberman chest thing that they have with them with the flashing lights and the number and stuff.
I love that as a kid.
And that's all deformed and like, you know, like the glass is broken and stuff and he's like super dead. he's Australian.
I love that he's actually Australian.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Some Australian playing in America.
Yeah, no one's going to pretend to be Australian for God's sake.
The only accent no one else could do.
That's true.
Not even Meryl Streep.
I've often thought who I would recast, but I wouldn't recast the main players.
I think they're they're absolutely right.
So this is virtual reality.
It's happening.
So they are the thoughts of a giant planetary brand.
Exactly.
Yeah.
So they, yeah.
So they are physical beings and they have a birth and an end, it seems to be saying, although they live a very long time.
They live a 1000 years, but they are just the voices of this super biocomputer.
Yeah.
Oh, well, they feed the brains.
It's getting very futurama.
It's Ultraworld.
It is Ultra World.
Oh, God.
Only, only good.
They're even bald people.
They're not asking her about the female...
Sorry, the female, the human mating.
That's right.
But and again, one of the 3 hasn't bothered to shave their head.
Yes.
Barbara.
Yeah.
Why did Barbara not do that?
I'm not sure the other 2 have shaved their heads either, to be honest.
I think that perhaps the weird herpes thing that he has there is to hide the join.
Yes, I think so.
Yeah.
It does look very good though, I think. don't know what's happening here.
She's being projected onto a screen and we're filming that. aren't we?
This is the brain, I think.
Yes.
Haven't you ever stuck Plato onto your forehead and then painted it with...
We've all had parties.
Yeah, it looks like.
But that's amazingly weird, isn't it?
What is that?
So you're a Star Trek fan.
See, I thought...
I thought it was a sphincter, but I think it's actually...
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
We're back on prolapse.
It's another colonoscopy.
Well, you know, they'd say where the plane was.
Maybe it's like an autonomic brain in the anus.
Oh, God.
I'm right.
Godzilla's got one.
John.
She does.
It's a she, by the way.
So this is very strange too.
This rarely happens, doesn't it?
that we have a voiceover.
And like, there's something about fear here.
Like all of this is sort of very high concept and none of it.
You know, some of it is very sort of crap B movie 50s sort of staff.
I was kind of kidding.
I don't know what that is.
Are they beaming down?
I don't know any trackers.
Oh, right, okay.
Oh, yeah, of course. opening credit.
Yeah, but he, this is him coming to terms with his fear.
Like he's imagining himself dead.
There's nothing left, and then he's something that some, you know, like a future archeologist comes up and fines.
Undergood three?
No, it's Martin again.
But they say this is him.
He's conquered his fear because he knows he's going to die, but Helena brings him back.
Because she's the one in the, he's actually, yeah, moved on further.
Yeah, he's moved on further than her.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Is this the point that we blow the high concept stuff to tell you that this was the episode where the bloke with the massive box came in to visit the set from the general Aniline film corporation or GAF?
Does anyone remember Viewmaster?
Oh really?
I brought the boys and the listener at home a little treat today.
Oh my god.
Is it your gaff box?
Are you whipping steady on?
Now that one is sadly in such a state of disrepair, but I do have...
Oh my goodness.
Genuine foley noises.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Just like you're really on TV.
To have, um, the complete fab book of Jerry Anderson viewmasks.
Because she can't even watch mine anymore.
But oh, I'm going to show Nathan because he's the only, he's almost as old as me.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I'm going to see if he had...
I don't...
I had it and it was gorgeous and I wore it to death.
There it is.
There's the cover. of it.
See, if he remembers, I got mine in David Jones in 1976.
This is what the Apple Vision Pro looked like.
Yeah, yeah.
So if anyone doesn't know a viewmaster, it was a gorgeous plastic thing that was that came out in the 50s and it, it's kind of like a viewing box looks like a camera and you put a disk in a cardboard disk with photos around it.
And the point is, it gave you 3D images when you looked through the viewing site of it.
It's literally this episode.
It is there this episode.
Yeah, and this was, because this was considered at the time, and, you know, what do you want to do?
what's the one that's got the most visual effects and what the most spaceship.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Which one's got Isla Blair in a comely shower curtain?
Oh, we don't mention we don't mention that um...
I would love, look, the slide...
I've still got mine someone.
The landscape of the strange planet was beautiful.
But we would have seen it in 3D. It would have looked incredible.
I remember just pausing on the Eagles because it was just so lovely seeing them, you know.
Yeah, yeah. haven't they?
they're gorgeous.
Like, apparently his box was enormous.
It was just like 2 cameras seller tape together.
It's the same tech they'd had since the 50s.
It didn't really happen.
I love too, that when Kernig comes and destroys everything, it stops being, like we stopped doing any of that weird camera shit and it's just like an office that's been bombed or something, like it just looks super prosaic, doesn't it?
Like he ruins the magic of it completely.
It's it's also one shot.
Yeah, yeah.
And they set it up.
They do say, we have no defences.
We don't need them.
Yeah, but I mean, I mean, we find out that they're incompatible with human fear that they live in a place from which that has to be banished and that's why they're going to these lengths to get rid of them.
I was going to say, want a bed?
I think they're a bit scared of the company.
Oh, my favourite building.
They just blowed up that building and they blew it up again.
Oh, that one.
Oh, there's another one.
They're three that all look the same.
Rude out.
Car view sets.
Well, I think we're going to drive up and look at the view, Nini.
It does look very much like they were built in Sydney, doesn't it, under current building codes because they just fall into pieces.
And meanwhile, there's some stock footage of a nuclear explosion.
Baker Day, 1946, Satton Tested Bikini Atoll.
And and I think it underwater.
It's actually an underwater one.
Right. don't you think, don't you think, like, when I 1st saw it, I thought that's cheesy as fuck. like a nuclear explosion.
It's like a gag, you know, Monty Python.
Scared.
That is the point, isn't it?
Yeah, exactly.
Oh, Cold War?
Expecting Oppenheimer to be...
Oops.
We actually did quite well, because Chris Penfold had written this as being of quite a long scene with falling aircraft and effects footage from Thunderbirds and UFOs showing ships crashing into landscapes and water.
So I think that would have been a bit crap.
Yeah, that was a lot better.
I love this though.
Like he just says, no, you have to turn around.
There's nowhere.
You can't be anywhere.
Oh, there's Tanya.
And then wibbly, wibbly, wibbly, and we're back to the present day.
There should have been a harp there.
There should have been.
I do feel it's unmotivated coming to the back to the present day at this point.
It should have been from the nuclear explosion.
Yes.
You know what I mean?
And nuclear explosions show the eagles being caught in the blast.
Then you wibly, wibly, wibly back.
I do like the bit where he decides that we have to go back.
I don't know, where he says we may as well die on alpha.
But, but, like, again, this, this is sort of oddly weird, because only they remember it.
And, and the thing that makes the difference, and then they forget.
So it doesn't affect anyone, we wake up at it all, it was all a dream, but it does make him make the decision different and the decision is not to be motivated by fear for a second.
And for that reason, it does actually carry on nicely from collision course, but it is meant to be seen.
No, is it before that?
This is SP 17.
Yeah, there's a 17.
I can't remember where a collision, of course, was meant to... in the actual production.
But again, they wrote, there's George Bellax script concepts and then there's Chris Penfolds and, you know, then everybody else.
So there were always sort of pods of ideas, but this does fit into that collision course. it does, isn't it?
It's just like, for Christ's sake, don't interfere with us your absolute disasters.
You're terrible people who fuck everything up.
Gorgeous interior design, especially you, Sam.
That's right.
And there you go.
Yeah.
Bog off.
Yeah, yeah.
You learn your dumpster fire of a human being. that's exactly it.
It's a whole moon full of dumpster fires.
So governed by emotion.
He's right Look what we're doing right now.
Nothing changes.
But she doesn't have the same more than compassion, does she?
She's the one that picked up the alpha gun and gave John a shot.
Yeah, well, you would, though.
That's it.
You're guesting on this show for a week.
You've already kind of built up a fair stock of enmity, I would think.
These days.
I wanted to ask you all this thought.
Now, these days when you're shooting this, you would not be using all Caucasian cast, and it's probably therefore likely as they were doing not long after this using maybe an Asian race or someone else.
They even started doing that in season 2 of this.
But I actually don't think that would have been of help.
I might actually have coded it wrongly.
I like that they're actually just us with more herpes.
And less aquariums.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, I think like representation in anything.
It's better if both the protagonists and antagonists have a diversity of representation because then because then you are not coding anything.
Like I agree, entirely rigid.
If they had, if the aliens had been cast, say, with Asian actors, it would have been a way of going, oh, well, they're other as opposed to our base.
Oh, but, you know, we have Sandra.
That's our defence from a production point of view.
No, no.
Like, um, the moon base is set up as you have John and Helena are the leads, down on the planet, we have a masculine and her feminine alien.
Yeah, yeah.
And one is very sort of direct and a little bit emotionless and the other one's a little bit warmer.
Yeah, they swap it. the other way around.
Well, I think that's great.
I just think that is absolutely amazingly.
It looked gorgeous.
Yeah, it looked great and it was a huge deal at the time.
Not bad for 50 years ago.
No, no.
Absolutely.
And just just the difference of doing most of the effects in cameras, so so great.
Yes, Isla Blair.
Well, we look forward to seeing her nipples in Blake 7 in a few years time.
Or, you know, 2 years ago in a podcast.
We almost caught that episode.
Island blades nipples.
Yeah, well, it's my worst fear.
Well, what do you think?
I think we wind it up. think we do.
Do we have anything to plug?
Nothing's happening at the moment We haven't recorded it. for a long time.
When's your when's your next...
Yep.
Keep an eye out for the next episode of the BJBJ game show?
And for the 3 handed game, an Avengers podcast.
Ooh, this is very exciting.
Yeah, starting off with From Venus with Love.
Brilliant.
So how are you doing it?
Just all over the place.
Yes.
But thematically. thematically good.
So we're doing sort of 3 episodes under a theme.
Our 1st theme is... reaching for the stars.
Reaching for the stars.
Right.
Brilliant.
All right.
Well, in that case, it just remains for me to say, until next time, remember that as flies to wanton boys, are we to the gods, they kill us for their sport.
Thank you very much for listening and good night.
Buzz buzz.
Ta-ta.
Thank you.
All right.
I think that's good.